Docs: Updates from puppeteer to Cypress (#20962)
grafana/grafana: contribute/style-guides/e2e.md

# End to End test framework
As our company grows our need for end to end (called e2e from now on) tests have also grown. Today we're using a minimal home grown solution built on top of Cypress for our e2e tests. 

## Basic concepts
A good introduction to some good e2e practices can be found [here](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/PageObject.html).

> - `Selector`, an unique identifier that is used from the e2e framework to retrieve an element from the Browser 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Selector`, a unique identifier that is used from the e2e framework to retrieve an element from the Browser 
```

- `Page`, an abstraction for an object that contains one or more `Selectors`

> - `Flow`, an abstraction that contains a sequence of actions on one or more `Pages` that can be reused and shared between tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `Flow`: An abstraction that contains a sequence of actions on one or more `pages` that can be reused and shared between tests
```

## Basic example

> Lets start with a simple example with a single selector and for simplicity all examples will be in JSX.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's start with a simple example with a single selector. For simplicity, all examples are in JSX.
```

> In our example app we have an input that we during our e2e test want to type some text in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example app we have an input that we during our e2e test want to type some text into.
```

Reviewer 2: In our example app, we have an input that we want to type some text into during our e2e test.

```jsx harmony
<div>
    <input type="text" className="gf-form-input login-form-input"/>
</div>
```

> We could define a selector using `JQuery` [type selectors](https://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/) with a string like `'.gf-form-input.login-form-input'` but that would be brittle as style changes occur frequently and there is nothing that signalizes to future developers that this input is part of an e2e test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We could define a selector using `JQuery` [type selectors](https://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/) with a string like `'.gf-form-input.login-form-input'`, but that would be brittle as style changes occur frequently, and there is nothing that signals to future developers that this input is part of an e2e test.
```

Reviewer 2: This sentence is awfully long. I suggest breaking it into several shorter sentences. It will be easier to read and understand.

Try to keep sentences under 25 words.

Author: Good feedback! I've broken it up into 2 sentences.

> At Grafana we've decided to use `aria-label` as our preferred way of defining our selectors instead of for instance`data-*` attributes because it also aids in accessibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Grafana, we use `aria-label` as our preferred way of defining selectors instead of `data-*` attributes. This also aids in accessibility.
```

> Lets add an descriptive `aria-label` to our simple example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add a descriptive `aria-label` to our simple example.
```

```jsx harmony
<div>
    <input type="text" className="gf-form-input login-form-input" aria-label="Username input field"/>
</div>
```

> Now that we added the `aria-label` we suddenly get more information about this particular field. It's an input field that represents an username but there it's still not really signalizing that it's part of a e2e test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we added the `aria-label` we suddenly get more information about this particular field. It's an input field that represents a username, but there it's still not really signaling that it's part of an e2e test.
```

> Now that we added the `aria-label` we suddenly get more information about this particular field. It's an input field that represents an username but there it's still not really signalizing that it's part of a e2e test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we added the `aria-label`, we suddenly get more information about this field. It's an input field that represents a username, but it's still not signalling that it's part of an e2e test.
```

> The next step is to create a `Page` representation in our e2e test framework to glue the test with the real implementation using the `pageFactory` function. For that function we can supply an `url` and `selectors` like the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a `Page` representation in our e2e test framework to glue the test with the real implementation using the `pageFactory` function. For that function we can supply a `url` and `selectors` like in the example below:
```

```typescript
export const Login = pageFactory({
  url: '/login', // used when called from Login.visit()
  selectors: {
    username: 'Username input field', // used when called from Login.username().type('Hello World')
  },
});
```

> The next step is to add `Login` page to the exported const `Pages` in `packages/grafana-e2e/src/pages/index.ts` so that it appears when we type `e2e.pages` in our IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to add the `Login` page to the exported const `Pages` in `packages/grafana-e2e/src/pages/index.ts` so that it appears when we type `e2e.pages` in our IDE.
```

```ecmascript 6
export const Pages = {
  Login,
  ...,
  ...,
  ...,
};

```

> Now that we have a `Page` called `Login` in our `Pages` const we can use that to add a selector in our html like shown below and now this really signalizes to future developers that this is part of a e2e test.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a `Page` called `Login` in our `Pages` const we can use that to add a selector in our html like shown below and now this really signals to future developers that it is part of an e2e test.   
```

```jsx harmony
<div>
    <input type="text" className="gf-form-input login-form-input" aria-label={e2e.pages.Login.selectors.username}/>
</div>
```

> The last step in our example is to use our `Login` page as part of a test. The `pageFactory` function we used before gives us two things by using it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step in our example is to use our `Login` page as part of a test. The `pageFactory` function we used before gives us two things: 
```

> The last step in our example is to use our `Login` page as part of a test. The `pageFactory` function we used before gives us 2 things by using it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last step in our example is to use our `Login` page as part of a test. The `pageFactory` function we used before gives us two things by using it: 
```

> - Firstly the `url` property will be used whenever we call the `visit` function and is equivalent to the Cypress function [cy.visit()](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/visit.html#Syntax)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `url` property is used whenever we call the `visit` function and is equivalent to the Cypress function [cy.visit()](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/visit.html#Syntax).
```

> - Any defined selector in the `selectors` property can be accessed from `Login` page by invoking it and this is equivalent to the result of the Cypress function [cy.get(...)](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/get.html#Syntax).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any defined selector in the `selectors` property can be accessed from the `Login` page by invoking it and this is equivalent to the result of the Cypress function [cy.get(...)](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/get.html#Syntax).
```

> - Secondly any defined selector in the `selectors` property can be accessed from `Login` page by invoking it and this is equivalent to the result of the Cypress function [cy.get(...)](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/get.html#Syntax) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Secondly any defined selector in the `selectors` property can be accessed from the `Login` page by invoking it and this is equivalent to the result of the Cypress function [cy.get(...)](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/get.html#Syntax) 
```

Reviewer 2: Remove "secondly" from the beginning of the sentence and add a period to the end.

```ecmascript 6
describe('Login test', () => {
  it('Should pass', () => {
    e2e.pages.Login.visit();
    e2e.pages.Login.username().type('admin');
  });
});
```

## Advanced example

> Lets take a look at an example that uses the same `selector` for multiple items in a list for instance. In this example app we have an list of data sources that we during a e2e test want to click on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at an example that uses the same `selector` for multiple items in a list for instance. In this example app we have a list of data sources that we during a e2e test want to click on.
```

```jsx harmony
<ul>
  {dataSources.map(dataSource => (
    <li className="card-item-wrapper" key={dataSource.id}>
      <a className="card-item" href={`datasources/edit/${dataSource.id}`}>
        <div className="card-item-name">
          {dataSource.name}
        </div>
      </a>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>
```
```

> Just as before in the basic example we'll start by creating a page abstraction using the `pageFactory` function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as before in the basic example we'll start by creating a page abstraction using the `pageFactory` function:
```

```typescript
export const DataSources = pageFactory({
  url: '/datasources',
  selectors: {
    dataSources: (dataSourceName: string) => `Data source list item ${dataSourceName}`,
  },
});
```

> You might have noticed that instead of a simple `string` as the `selector` we're using a `function` that takes a string parameter as an argument and returns a formatted string using the argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might have noticed that instead of a simple `string` as the `selector`, we're using a `function` that takes a string parameter as an argument and returns a formatted string using the argument.
```

Just as before we need to add the `DataSources` page to the exported const `Pages` in `packages/grafana-e2e/src/pages/index.ts`.

> The next step is to use the `dataSources` selector function as in our example like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to use the `dataSources` selector function as in our example below:
```

> Just as before we need to add `DataSources` page to the exported const `Pages` in `packages/grafana-e2e/src/pages/index.ts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as before we need to add the `DataSources` page to the exported const `Pages` in `packages/grafana-e2e/src/pages/index.ts`.
```

> The next step is to use the `dataSources` selector function as in our example like below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to use the `dataSources` selector function as in our example like below:
```

```jsx harmony
<ul>
  {dataSources.map(dataSource => (
    <li className="card-item-wrapper" key={dataSource.id}>
      <a className="card-item" href={`datasources/edit/${dataSource.id}`}>
        <div className="card-item-name" aria-label={e2e.pages.DataSources.selectors.dataSources(dataSource.name)}>
          {dataSource.name}
        </div>
      </a>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>
```

> When this list is rendered with the data sources with names `A`, `B`, `C` the resulting html would become

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this list is rendered with the data sources with names `A`, `B`, `C` the resulting html would become:
```

```jsx harmony
<div class="card-item-name" aria-label="Data source list item A">
 A
</div>
...
<div class="card-item-name" aria-label="Data source list item B">
 B
</div>
...
<div class="card-item-name" aria-label="Data source list item C">
 C
</div>
```

> Now we can go ahead and write our test and the one thing that differs from the `Basic example` is that we pass in which data source we want to click on as an argument to the selector function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can go ahead and write our test and the one thing that differs from the `Basic example` is that we pass in which data source we want to click on as an argument to the selector function:
```
